# Facemesh
Use open source face recognition to detect doppelgängers.

## Installation
For detecting face landmarks to pupil-align the face meshes, you need to download the latest `face_landmarker.task` from Google and place it in `/bin/` alongside the script: 
```
curl -O https://storage.googleapis.com/mediapipe-models/face_landmarker/face_landmarker/float16/1/face_landmarker.task
```

Don't forget to install the requirements from `/bin`:
```
$pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
This looks for images uploaded into the `/img` folder, so from /bin you can run: 
```
$ python3 facemesh.py feigl1.jpg feigl2.jpg 
```
to receive an example output using two baseball players who are unrelated doppelgängers named Brady FEIGL (born 1990) and Brady FEIGL (born 1995).

## How about a mask? Literal mask?

I'm including examples of a Nogaku mask called Doji. That's a wooden mask first developed in the 1300s in Japan. It still detects the face structure of the masks and compares them because this isn't refined enough yet to distinguish human beings from masks, but actors do in fact use their faces like masks so the raw structural information is useful. Humans can manipulate a lot of details of their face mesh voluntarily or unconsciously: differences in the tension in the muscles around the nose and mouth for example. 

Since this is a brand-new project and very advanced versions of this exist, it's just to demontrate how this software works and that it can in fact distinguish known cases of doppelgängers already out of the box. But there are some refinements that add a lot: if you want to go by the underlying skeletal structure, you have to avoid actorly manipulation of the soft tissue, like patterns in the muscle tension in the face, to focus on stuff that's closer in nature to a fingerprint, i.e. generated by the genes. It's known that the spacing between the inner canthus points is more about the genetics of the skull shape and not acting.

So I added a measure of the variance between the inner canthus points. Even with a literal wooden mask, it will tell you how closely the masks match for the inner corner of the eye. On humans this minimises the effect of two actors with different fingerprints holding the same face shape to create the same impression, a basic tool of the actor. 

## Usage

The most scientific aspect of this is euclidean face distance as a measurement for likelihood that two people are doppelgängers of each other. The score ranges from 0.0 (exact same photo) to 2.0 (extremely different looking) and very different looking people can get scores of 0.9 or 1.1 while doppelgänger phenomena often start with a cosine distance below 0.75 or so. People that easily pass for each other are returning 0.5-0.7 when I try this out. Actually same person is likeliest when the euclidean distance is under 0.30 and that's reflected in the text it writes to the output image. 

*Race detection is sketchy:* Even with the "least socially biased" race category detection, it leads to a lot of false positives and a lot of false negatives, even sometimes giving different results on the same person. So it's highly experimental and is less reliable for ethnicity guessing than full fingerprinting (e.g. joint probability of global fingerprint type distributions) but that isn't conclusive either. You need to use court-ordered DNA testing or use biometrics to locate an actual birth certificate that matches the biometrics and then trace the genealogy. For sketchy race guessing, usage becomes `$python3 facemesh.py feigl1.jpg feigl2.jpg --detect-race` 

*Use images with just one face:* This always grabs the first face from the top left. If there are multiple faces in an image, crop the image or blur the other faces out to isolate just one face. It prefers two input images with just one face. 

*Face mesh distance score isn't a fingerprint:* But it does work pretty well to distinguish lookalikes, drawing on an example from baseball of doppelgängers. The euclidean distances between the faces of the same men in different photos are under 0.3 and it's about 0.6 for each other, and most people think they look quite similar until they compare the actual face meshes. This tool helps you understand consciously and with an empirical face structure comparison that they aren't the same individual biological human. 

I've uploaded photos of the doppelgänger baseball players both named Brady FEIGL, both 6'4" / 193cm, who had the same Tommy John surgeon but aren't from the same family. One was born in 1990 and one was born in 1995 in different jurisdictions and they didn't know each other, but look similar, style themselves similarly, and both became baseball players. 

`/img` also contains an example output.

This uses FairFace because, although AI-assisted ethnicity inference is always sketchy, and seems to be especially biased against Japanese people, FairFace is supposed to be trained for less prejudice. Projects like Facebook's DeepFace are Eurocentric and lead to false negatives on pictures of women and people of colour. 

So that part might get removed if it's just too problematic, but these APIs do in fact attempt to infer race, age, and mood -- all of them very inaccurately.

The part that's more scientific is the face mesh distance: face mesh distance is actually used to find supsects using surveillance cameras. 

So metrics like the euclidean distances between the vector spaces of the 2 face meshes can in fact detect different people. 

The photos that are the same Brady Feigl have a small euclidean distance, like if you use feigl1.jpg and feigl3.jpg or feigl2.jpg and feigl4.jpg, but comparing odd and even results in a greater euclidean distance because they are biologically distinct and just an example from baseball of doppelgängers. 

## What if you have a doppelgänger problem?

If you have a doppelgänger problem or an imposter issue, you should attempt to use fingerprints and DNA. Fingerprints already biologically identify distinct individual human beings, especially if all 10 fingerprints are taken. Face meshes are used to correlate face structure biometrics with sets of 10 fingerprints. DNA testing is ultimately also a good test for identity but sets of 10 fingerprints are adequate to definitely separate out individuals. Fingerprint minutiae from full fingerprint sets can even distinguish identical twins because of small differences in development. Consult with your attorney if you're having that sort of problem and consider hiring a private investigator. Police have stressful lives and might just assume you're crazy without forensic evidence from a private investigator and an attorney but if you can get a photo of the imposter you can compare the euclidean distance of their face mesh with your face mesh as as starting point. But you should use a investigation service and an attorney. If you use this on someone else without permission it might be a privacy issue. I'm including examples from a famous doppelgänger case from baseball that got amused media attention. 

Consider this scenario: let's say Brady Feigl and Brady Feigl decide to create a rasta reggae expert who looks like them but doesn't really exist. They could get fake IDs made. Maybe the rasta guy that "neither of them knows" is French. They just need a dreadlock wig, maybe some pooka shells, and to study French and reggae music. It doesn't cause a 3rd guy to start to exist, it just means they can play the same character for you, and 2 of the 3 can be in the same room at the same time until they find a 3rd guy, also of the same complexion, hair colour, and height, to put on the pooka shells and dreadlock wig. Only a distinct fingerprint set indicates a distinct real person and an effort should be made to match their body with a real original birth certificate using just biometrics and to match them for a biological origin family using a biological identity standard. People make fake IDs and can simulate someone's existence who isn't real using performance. Abductions use fake IDs, too. There is a real need for biometric identity and for scientific measurements of biologically distinct organisms, not just a reliance on identity documents and performance.

## Can it detect stunt doubles and body doubles? 

One use case for this is detecting alternate actors in films. Actors often use scene doubles and not just stunt doubles: having 2 actors who are closer doppelgänger match and who are both highly-skilled actors means directors and production companies have a sort of insurance for the completion of the film product. This is even reflected in contracts for major motion pictures. An actor who has a few alternates can have more simultaneous projects and the project is less affected by illness or injury. A famous example is how Tom Hanks's brothers helped him finish Forrest Gump and did some entire segments of the films like the running scenes. Martin Sheen finished Apocalypse Now! after Harvey Keitel's heart attack but that involved reshoots. After Brandon Lee died on the set of The Crow, Chad Stahelski (future director of John Wick and Keanu Reeves's double in The Matrix) finished the part, but CGI was used to superimpose Brandon's face, so movies are unreliable information for face meshes. 

Actors also use body doubles for sex scenes sometimes. That sounds impolite to use this for. But you'd need a measurement of their face. Other toolkits exist to compare body structure, such as comparing hands or torsos for similarity. Don't be a weirdo. 

Once again ask your attorney: but face mesh distance can also detect political body doubles. Politicians can use a security strategy where they have a body double who draws out attacks intended for the politician. The underlying mechanism is the same as an actor's double. You should worry more if the real politician hasn't shown back up.
